# Structural Analyst App

## Description

Stiffness method is the most commonly used technique for the analysis of different engineering structures belonging to the category of matrix based technique.  Since matrix algebra has great computing support, it was relatively easy to develop computer software using stiffness method. There are many advanced engineering software available based on this technique for PC platform. Mobile computing is relatively a new area. Due to increased processing power, convenience and mobility this platform is considered to have more potential and that is why we see an explosion of development of all sorts of software for this platform including engineering software. Structural analysis software is one category of such software which is usually based on stiffness method. 
This project also demonstrates the implementation of stiffness method on android platform. We develop software which analyze beam and truss elements of a structure. The software has an intuitive interface which, we believe, an engineer can learn very quickly. We strive to keep the development flexible, so that it can be extended easily to include other structure elements. 
## Stiffness Method

The direct stiffness method, also known as the matrix stiffness method, is best suited for computer-automated analysis of complex and complicated structures including the statically indeterminate type. This is a matrix method that makes use of the member’s stiffness relations for computing member forces and displacements in structures. It is the most common method for the implementation of the finite element method (FEM). To apply the method, the system must be showed as a set of simpler, idealized elements interconnected at the nodes. The material stiffness properties of these elements are then, through matrix mathematics, compiled into a single matrix equation which governs the behavior of the entire idealized structure. The structure’s unknown displacements and forces can then be determined by solving this equation. The direct stiffness method forms the basis for most commercial and free source finite element software.
